hi this is andrew from laptop reviews
calm and i have here with me today the
ThinkPad t 430 which is on the left and
the t4 30s which is on the right these
laptops are pretty similar similar
except of the fact that the t4 30s is
essentially a slimmer and lighter
version of the t 430 both have 14 inch
screens and both have a lot of similar
options but you shave about a pound of
weight off of the t4 30s and it's about
2/10 of an inch thinner which is it
sounds like a not much but actually it
does make quite a bit of difference I
just kind of closed the lids to show you
here how much thinner it is at the front
there you can see that the t4 30s is
noticeably thinner especially at the
front there at the back it's a little
less of a difference but at the front
he'll definitely notice it's thinner so
let's just assume it in here to prove we
do have a t4 30s with us in case you
doubt me and of here let's see for 30
there we go Oh Ruben so um I just kind
of wanted to compare the screens a
little here the the t4 30 on the left
has the 1366 by 768 screen the t4 30s on
the right has 1600 by 900 screen upgrade
so you get a better resolution over
there however the viewing angles and
saturation color accuracy are about the
same if I push them back here you'll see
the colors will distort because these
are not IPS displays and it's about the
same degree of distortion they're both
our mat screens so you're not going to
get a bunch of glare and reflection
which is good for office environments
such as this where you see there's a lot
of strong overhead lighting in terms of
ports and differences well there's a lot
of difference in locations of the ports
though the actual selection is similar
by rotate around here you'll see that on
the t4 30s doesn't have much going on on
the
side it just has the USB 3.0 and a
combined headphone microphone jack
whereas the t 430 regular has BJ monitor
headphone microphone jack me DisplayPort
and two USB ports USB 3.0 ports a
rotating the T 40 30s around to the
right side I get the optical drive and
up that's it there's nothing else the
same on the tee at 4:30 on the right
side you get over here
a USB 3.0 port
excuse me 2.0 port then Express card
reader and then perform a media card
reader on the back of the T for 30 you
have vertical powered USB 2.0 port and
Ethernet port and the power jack on the
back of the t4 30s is where all the
action really is for this notebook you
get the power jack Ethernet USB 3.0 USB
2.0 powered mini DisplayPort and the VGA
so really little bit ports on the back
there overall you do get one more USB
2.0 port on the T 430 versus the t4 30s
if that makes a difference to you it's
worth considering and you do have an
option for a dedicated graphics on the
TT 430 as well or 64 30s not offer them
it's just intel HD 4000 graphics um
let's see some other differences we can
mention here Bozz I mentioned before
about the weight difference is kind of
go ahead and demonstrate the actual
weight itself you will notice it if I go
ahead and look at the back of the t 430
here it has a 9 cell baton so it's going
to be pretty happy with this you do have
more battery options for the t 430 so
you can get smaller the four cell I
believe in a six cell and then the nine
cell the nine cell sticks out and you
can get up to 15 hours with this the
b6l should be flush with the back with
the t4 30s you just get one battery
option or two but they're the same same
size and they don't stick out so the
nine cell battery this 2.30 is five
point one pounds or 5.2 pounds
I put the t4 30s on you'll see it's
right around four pounds so quite a bit
lighter there we go actually just a
up right there four pounds so it's a lot
lighter you can definitely feel it just
in the picking it up so you know it's if
you're a portable on the go a lot needs
to one a 14 inch screen the t4 30s is
definitely the way to go
so if you stay tuned to laptop use comm
we'll have further coverage on both
these laptops coming